The introduction that you just heard is courtesy of Lee Edmunds, his portable synthesiser.
And David Greene also helped.
00:17.820 -> 00:25.900
And yes, I think it's sort of traditional by starting behind time, with ten minutes behind time.
We hope to catch up.
Well I would sort of like to, as coordinator of the chairman, Paul Stokes,
never having attended a science fiction convention before,
wanted me to introduce the convention, since I have attended a few.
And so I'd just sort of like to give a welcome to everyone, everyone that's come from the state
of the 12th Australian Science Fiction Convention.
And this is in fact the first Australian convention to be held in another state
outside of Sydney or Melbourne.
And as far as there's some sort of a first.
And well, I think at this stage, first of all, I should introduce our guest of honour,
which is John Foester, who's a...
And the man that's going to be introducing a lot of the Paul Stokes on my left.
Well the little fellow in the corner at the tape recorder is Rod Hannah.
And he's told me that he doesn't want anyone to touch the expensive equipment over there.
So don't touch him.
Responsible for the film is John Hewitt on my right.
And the guy that's getting to give you some music this afternoon is Mike Clarke in the blue on my right.
Well, there's other people that you're going to meet during the convention.
People like Jeff Harris, who's sitting down at the front.
And some of his helpers, namely Joy Window.
He's got a hand in everything.
The only other committee member here at the moment, responsible for the auction,
is Paul Anderson up near the bank.
Well, at this stage we've got a few announcements to make.
First of all, anyone that hasn't collected banquet tickets should go down and see Gary Mason some stage afternoon.
And also anyone that wants to go to the banquet and hasn't bought a ticket should go down and see him,
because they're selling fast.
And we've got a limit of 40 attending the banquet, and it's almost full up, I believe.
I've also been informed by Lincoln College people that cars should not be parked out in the alcove down there.
In fact, they should be left in the street, apparently.
And also there's a coffee machine at the back of the room, which is 10 cents.
There's a coffee machine as well, which should be operating.
It's going to be operating 15 cents.
Starts the room.
And there is one alteration in the program.
It's on Saturday.
At 6.30pm, John Breeden's comic slides has been changed to sometime after the awards banquet.
And I think that's the only alteration at the moment.
Something without further ado we'll call the past two, which is just on time.
We'll start with the panel.
Yes, Alex, Stu, why don't you?
Yes, which is going to be introduced by John Hewitt and Paul Stokes.
One spoiler announcement. Don't go touching the film screen.
It's hanging by here at the moment, and I'd rather it didn't fall down.
Who's going to go?
Who'll draw you into the conversation or use your motor stack?
Right.
Go ahead.
Oh, it works.
Good afternoon.
With the ever-growing permission in our society, we have decided that it's time that we looked at sex in science fiction.
All right, go on.
Well, we're going to read some examples of packages from various books I've picked out, but I see there are children in the audience.
No, you won't.
We will, however, discuss various aspects of sex in science fiction.
Not necessarily in that order.
Um...
I can't think of any.
What are you feeling about some of the books you've been reading in the last week?
Yeah, so I've been borrowing a large number of books from Alan and plowing my way through them, things like The Standing Joy by Wyman Gwyn.
The Book of Skulls by Robert Silverberg.
It didn't quite finish that one. It's rather dull.
Productions of Time by John Brunner.
I might as well start discussing some writer's aspects to sex.
I'll start with Phil, who's going to imagine over his here somewhere.
I guess there are various ways you'd look at sex in science fiction.
You can have either...dividing into categories, you can have either sexual customs in a future society.
Totally alien forms of sex.
Recognizable forms of sex of an alien.
And various aspects like this.
And then again there's just normal...
Almost normal sex introduced into a science fiction book, just not really as part of the plot.
In the Book of Skulls by Silverberg,
he depicts sex in a future society.
They're allowed to know...not so far in the future.
Four young men go looking for immortality.
The sex in it is, I guess, more or less the way sex is in New York nowadays.
A very casual you go along, you pick up a member of the opposite sex for the night.
But surely he's just introduced sex into this book because it's sort of contemporary.
And then he's just sort of wanting to sell the book.
Put a bit of sex into the violence and not really relevant to the plotters.
Not really.
Moving along. Moving right along the world inside.
This is the one I meant to see up in the first place.
There are a large number of people, e.g. something like a million people,
living in one building, two miles high.
Now, fairly obvious sexual customs in a society like that are going to be much different.
In this case, there exists almost a society of free love.
Anyone can walk in your front door and demand a sleep with your wife, and you can't say no.
Whether...I think, although he seems to indicate in the book that most people go along with this,
I don't think anyone really agrees with it.
There still exists a form of jealousy.
Nice place to visit, but you wouldn't want to live there, I suppose.
True. I'd just keep it yet away.
I think in the world inside, the free love aspect is freely accepted by the majority of people.
Not so. There's one character in it who was very jealous about his wife.
There's one character out of how many millions.
Well, this still was very right in the book about a typical group of people inside the building.
I think he did. I think he wrote the book about a typical part of future society.
Yeah, but it seemed to me on reading it, I guess it was just personal impression that
there wasn't anyone in it who subconsciously really liked other people walking in the front door and sleeping with their wife.
Yeah, but it doesn't feel like there's really...
I mean, he doesn't say it.
...talk about only a few people.
And those people are people in particular positions.
One is a fairly high administrative rank.
One is a historian studying sex customs in the 20th century.
One's a musician.
One's a musician, if you're funny.
But don't you think that in this book, the world inside, despite being presumably tolerant towards sex,
they aren't really tolerant towards sort of abnormal human behaviour and that everyone says cramped
that they've got to tolerate one another and the guy in that book was cast out and he was finally...
he was cool.
Yeah, one chap had to leave it.
Despite being sort of liberal in one respect,
it sort of turned out to be...
it was not really free love in that case.
It was enforced.
You know, you have to go out.
Yeah, well, it is a...
it looks like a free love society on the surface, but as I said, I don't think any of them really
like people walking in and saying, you know,
I want your wife at some stage.
But then I seem to mind walking somewhere else and saying, I'd like your wife.
Well, the...
I think that's not what was it.
It's not the main character in that.
It's not supposed to be people.
That's why I have to leave.
He was only one character in the small chapter of the book.
I was thinking more of the historian.
I think he actually objected to other people sleeping with his wife.
Yes?
I have a question.
If Dalek is one of you, what are the other two like?
How do you say, good Dalek?
I don't know.
Well, we only have one Dalek.
I don't see how it's...
I think I came up with that title, that phrase at the committee meeting.
It was just because it rhymed well.
We decided to...
I mean, we have, you know, seemed a better title.
Um, do Dalek truly enjoy it?
Yes.
Do we enjoy it?
It's on the committee meeting.
Uh, I don't think that's good for them.
The man inside the Dalek probably enjoys it.
Okay?
I think I'll just...
I'll just start discussion over it.
I mean, it's not...
It's generally like, you know, I think I just...
Um, clean brain...
Yes, but...
Do we enjoy doing it?
I'm afraid we've had to remove the sexual organs on our Daleks.
They're going on TV.
I don't know.
Okay, so, and...
Um...
Anyway, moving right along.
You sort of want to comment on the fact that
sort of every sexual interlude in a silverberg will sort of read like every other sort of silverberg.
Uh, another...
In other words, there's a world inside the section that reads exactly the same as in the Summers Man,
which is exactly the same as in Time of Changes.
Uh, yes.
Even in any of the silverbergs or other ones, so...
It sort of gets to the stage where it's just like, um, sort of...
railway carriages coupling and uncoupling.
Oh, there's not to be mechanical about it.
There's no railway carriages in Georgia.
Well, they seem to have been out and laid anyway.
Yeah.
Why do you have Daleks from a private auto-serve?
Oh, God.
Yeah? I thought you were a junior member.
I think in the Summers Man, now, as I imagine, it's going to be his books.
I think he'd make quite a case of his most brilliant writer in science fiction.
He really seems to draw a second world wall just to...
...jude.
Uh, quite ordinary science fiction novels.
I suppose, don't be tedious when you write that section.
In simple reason, it's this term, you know, pre-load, whatever it means.
But there's a difference of left.
So, the feeling of the end of life, you know, the sexual intercourse,
the relationship between the other and the method of playing himself as he...
Uh, there's a particular course of time of changes where a guy can't go to sleep without putting himself off, you know,
and I don't think it helps the narrative or anything to it, whatever.
It's just a total...
I think he's the most brilliant writer in science fiction.
Oh, yeah.
I think he's kind of doing it.
And of course, some of his stuff was published in Ked White's Amazing,
and sort of using trendy, poor-letter words in Amazing.
Things like The Second Trip, which is another silverberg book,
was that sort of caused quite a few, or apparently, when it was published.
Well, let's hit his magazines.
You can't put all that in words.
Yeah.
The paperback market is supposedly different.
But, I mean, he does figure out every science fiction magazine,
and you know that there's things in that all that knowledge he's accepted or not, perhaps.
Yeah, we're here from the adolescence, yes.
I have to get to my decision, actually.
He probably hasn't do that.
He's touching all my shit, so he can't do it.
Oh, so he can't do it.
So he can do that, right?
Yeah, I agree with you that silverberg sex is very tedious,
or at least I think it is in...
Son of a man, I don't think I read more than a third of the book before I gave up.
I just found that it's nearly all totally unrealistic sex,
and it just didn't mean anything to me.
Shall we move on to discuss someone else?
We'll discuss someone else.
How about Phil Farmer?
Yeah.
This is the only book of Phil Farmer's life that's ever,
so I've only read about the first chapter in which he has a woman first.
What's been the book?
Time Stop.
Are you aware that Farmer didn't write the first two pages of that?
Oh, well, no wonder. I didn't read the...
Well, for the girls' breast-getting ripped orphan, or that sort of thing.
Yeah, yeah.
You tried to seduce her.
Well, that appeared in the vegan edition of the series of 65 of that kind of work.
Remember the late 50s?
And the editors always wrote an introductory chapter to...
And I'm rather surprised that Farmer didn't, um...
Well, ask for that.
Maybe he did it himself, I don't know, basically.
It's not in the original edition of Mock-It-Rust in the magazine.
Did the vegan food-shrine-whip production actually paragraph through the book, in the main?
I don't think so.
Yeah.
And now, the only one they didn't have to write in production, too, was either flesh or...
No, it was a bit of a bit of a...
Well, there's only one type of a public.
They did not have to write a juicy, happening, kind of...
Um...
Lord Tideg.
Well, actually, I don't think this time stop is a very good example of Philip Jose Farmer's work,
which includes sectioned science fiction, which I think is one of his most boring books.
Probably one of the...
I can't let that pass.
Time stop?
I think it's possibly one of the three best books.
I haven't read it in eight years.
Can we get back to that?
Most of it in the love of Philip's novel.
No, it hasn't.
It's all well-opened, really, in that, recently, about 10 years ago.
But, last time I read Mock-It-Rust was in that format.
It still is, I think, in the original, well-written book.
Oh, well-written, but I think it's still rather boring compared to some things like the Riverwald series.
Well, I've got a lot of ideas.
I mean, what about?
But it's still a very well-opened.
Yeah.
Do you have any sound sound, maybe?
What would you consider Lord Tideg with science fiction?
I haven't read it, so...
I don't know.
Certainly, there's science fiction in the Bible,
which is not really what it's talking about.
If you can tell another little question, please, it's not funny.
It's not a fiction, it's a pen on a...
independent function.
Then again, Farmer seems to have sold out from writing a genuine sort of science fiction novel
with alien sex ideas, something like the Lover's,
who's sort of gone on to destroy pornographic novels for Essex House.
Have you read any so-called pornographic novels really, Ted?
No, I have actually, yes.
I think it's far better than I love it.
Far better than anything that he's done in the late 16th century.
Well, I suppose they're sort of...
Yeah.
16th...
16th century.
Ember and Rhee.
I'm looking out the window for the next convention.
Huh.
I'll say something about John Boyd.
I just, a couple of weeks ago, I read Sex and the High Command,
just particularly from this panel.
I don't think Boyd has any idea whatsoever about what sex is about.
Anyone on this panel who's a virgin, please say no.
Say there.
Well, the idea of this is that women in the world get hold of something
which is a substitute for their normal sex life, something called vital earth.
It does away with men, apparently.
They shove it up there, wipe it, and give them a big kiss.
They're called V-bombs, I think.
V-yogons, I think.
Apparently, a son-how also causes fertilization,
you know, doing away with men completely.
And I found that the men in this book were totally emasculated.
They're just, when women refuse them, they're totally incapable of doing anything about it.
And I think, in general, from what I've read of Boyd,
either his heroes are superstars, you know,
they go through so many women that's unrealistic,
or else they just can't approach a woman at all.
I don't think there's a single male character I've come across in a Boyd novel
who has what I consider to be a normal, healthy sex life.
In this, when the women refuse their men, the men just don't do anything about it.
They're totally incapable of doing anything about it.
The average guy at rape is wife, if she said no, or divorce her, one or the other.
You're talking about it just in terms of sex and not getting sex,
but what about in science fiction aspects?
This is supposed to be a future society where women, you know,
mentally don't feel they don't require men anymore,
and they now physically don't require men anymore.
I mean, you know, the men seem to have grown up with a gigantic inferiority complex,
so they're not good for anything.
You know, it's the type of thing, you know, and they're just
a natural selection dying off.
You know, the weakest to survive because they're the most civilized.
Anybody who's any threat is done away with.
What does the panel think of having sexual relationships in science fiction?
Oh, can you give us some suggestions as well?
I think in that case, homosexuality was necessary in that book for the boys who committed suicide,
because if you remember, four went to find a mortality and only two could have.
One had to voluntarily die, one had to be killed.
And the guy who voluntarily died, I mean, realized he had late sexual sexual...
What an awful cliche in this show, though.
It was this sort of...
It was a quite valid, quite...
It wasn't absolutely necessary.
They could have got any character as mentally unstable committed suicide.
It would then all have to be homosexuals or late homosexuals.
Perfect.
I think it would be a bit unusual that out of four people, two of them are actually
have homosexual tendencies.
In that, one of the characters in this is, well, not strictly homosexual, he's bisexual.
Well, perhaps the panel can go away from the tower of grace if it is,
could you find some good examples of sexual and non-physical?
Sure, there must be some.
Well, Robert Heinle's Glory Road, I think, with the main character in this,
has a reasonable approach to sex.
It seems to me to be the approach of a typical army soldier, you know, habit we're getting to find.
But surely that's a cop-out, you know, and it's a fun book.
True, true.
It's just that the word camel wasn't proved on.
The only sex is an animal.
It's fun sex, you know, if you have a good laugh about it.
Surely it's one of the shortcomings as far as you can edit it.
That fun sex is permissible.
It's the first thing good.
It wasn't any sex on stage in Glory Road anyway.
It was all sort of delayed until after the end of the chapter or something.
Even sort of cop-out when we were sort of showing some girls they had sex with
and they turned out to be, you know, looking too young.
So I don't think he was really realistic in that respect, especially for the song.
Can you not consider it as an example of sexual and non-physical?
No, I don't really think so.
How much is his weight?
I don't know.
Oh, you're going to be able to...
Oh, sorry.
Well actually the Old Piano Evil is a more recent one which is called Time and Up for Love,
which in fact deals with incest and he's sort of having it with his mother and his sisters and everyone.
And the dog.
He sort of, yeah.
Since you are about the only one who's read it.
He's getting on to that.
He's getting to be a real dirty old man, I'm afraid.
Yeah, you can see that in Heinlein you can see the graduation up to about 1960.
You never touch sex apart from saying girls are warm and cuddly.
After that you get books that you typically have Glory Road in which it's known that the hero
sleeps with a woman but they're no explicit sex or anything.
From what you say in the latest books.
But even in the latest one it's still sex and fun so he doesn't really want to get too serious.
Aley Hyman's a latent homosexual.
I think he had a sort of something about his mother though.
It's a time travel story and the character goes back and falls in love with his mother.
He was a good good good.
Pardon?
Or you're zombies.
The character is really known as a father and mother though.
It's a good story, it's a second destiny.
What's your problem?
Who can understand the problem?
Is it normal to have a different kind of problem for a normal or hard-of-the-world?
Probably because I'm a real bad kid.
And that's why.
It's like a vowel or a channel covering those things.
I'm sure.
I don't think they thought about how many people on stage.
But it has a very nice teacher like me who's wife.
Who can get out of the way.
I wasn't normal about sex.
That's right. I was going to have a sex novel.
I don't think this is perhaps where someone's fiction for working their genres was considered.
Someone's fiction about sex, about sex knowledge.
That's not how the sad novel was getting.
And like the third story, it all made my brothers, which you wouldn't want to marry your sister.
In the actual story, she's a worm.
But even then, he was coy and avoided the use of the word, Ollivore, using it.
One thing.
You've got a sort of distinguish between novels striving to be just sort of trendy and that.
By including sex scenes and sort of stories that you're sort of talking about.
Ted Sturgeon's earliest out-of-the-short, those include sex.
Is that an inherent part of the plot?
I think more than human is another interesting example.
Sort of a guest-ult then.
Sort of some reasonably realistic descriptions of what I thought to be reasonable people and characterizations.
Especially the, I think, 80s-3 novel there.
Doesn't it work on the camera?
I think they would actually, you know, just two people say that a lonely or a lonely together.
Especially that sort of alien being.
They're not only being being, but they're doing smaller.
They only have, you know, the people that say.
They're obviously attracted to one another, so why not?
Well, there's another aspect of sex and this is alien sex, which is totally unrealistic.
E.G. supposing a race which has six different sexes.
I personally can't recall anything. Having read anything even like this, I don't know if anyone in the audience has.
I would say it was a language that's kind of sex.
Say a few words, big meal.
I don't know how you worked at the house.
Why?
Supersex is some sex with insects.
You've gone on and on to that part.
Insects?
Break it down.
How about the Sheldon, the boring sex group in 2005?
Yes, I can look at that.
If you've done a two-point difficulty, but you have children that haven't been born for three hours ago,
please run home and take your mind off of the 16.
And I think that if you don't have all these people, then you never get rid of them.
I don't know, of course.
That's rather complicated.
I don't know.
We would.
Actually, Jeff, I think of as many sexes as there are people, we can start with that.
That's quite contentious.
I don't know.
I think it's a very interesting question.
If it's Soryazumon, it's not a very good example to take.
I don't know.
I think that in the early 20s, what was the penetration of turning the gas into hot?
Well, then that's just been good happen.
That's a great text, sir.
We're going to talk about sex for each of us in a text read more than a little while.
Yes.
Yes, I have.
I thought I asked that a while ago.
I don't know.
I think it's that.
Actually, if everyone's talking about a boy, no one's mentioned one of his novels, which I think is rather amusing.
It's all about sex, rackles of heaven.
I think this novel, more than any, gets the idea that a boy is having everyone on anyway.
You can't really believe his characters, because he doesn't believe in himself.
The reason that he doesn't believe in his characters.
It's a trick when you're not a very good writer to begin deciding across the rightful art.
And I found the rightful art to be unrealable.
On the other hand, I found that the last 40 pages of the popular debate, as good as if not better,
is that anything that a student has done in a similar manner to the history of the Ukraine,
the rest of the book is pretty bad.
That's why I'm thinking of the flower in which they were born and all that.
It's very, very well done.
It just goes to show, I proved my earlier point, that his characters don't have a still-done kind of approach to normal sex relationships.
They've got to do it via a flower.
You're getting the sense of all sexual relationships, and you're getting what they're the rightful characters.
Be careful, John.
It's a phrase that usually brings out what he's written.
But in that case, he's getting the phrase like normal sexual relationships,
when you're discussing the bizarre sexual relationships of science fiction.
Science fiction is not the normal one.
Yes, he's just counter-flying that.
It's just very, very age-rigging.
It's a farmer's book.
Now, the inter-catholic image of the thing could not have been written without the wild, weird sexual imagination that poured into it.
And because it doesn't have any of the restrictions of the science fiction sphere, he could really, pardon the phrase, let's go.
You can't relate any sort of normal sexual activity to that book.
In some way, I think you've got to define a good sex relation.
And I suppose that is one that you enjoy without...
Right, it's one that you'd enjoy, your partner would enjoy, and you wouldn't have any guilt feelings or complexes about it.
You'd have a hell of a time being kind of a magicist, John.
So this is where the whole...
Yeah, but that's part of the enjoyment side, I guess.
It's not good to get too deep into it.
I'm just afraid it's normal.
Okay, I'll try.
I think that a relationship which is satisfactory to both parties without guilt feelings or lots of authenticity or something like that,
it's pretty hard to reply to that type of fiction writing that's there.
I wish I could listen to that.
Yes, well...
Okay, you're speaking about sort of abnormal or this sort of different sort of sexual relationships,
not about the relationship that the character in the Ellison story has to his dog.
If anyone's read this story, is this sort of a love story or what do you consider that?
Well, not a whole lot of it, but it's a book in the top story.
You may recall that the other surgeon won't find a perversion.
Does anyone think that the exclusion of all others and that includes the missionary position?
This helps to do when we talk about normal sexual relationships.
Comments?
What's the mission of the missionary?
We've done it with the missionary.
They're talking about alien sex. What about in a film that's Strange Relations?
There's a series of stories in that and there's one chap in there who has been married to numerous aliens
throughout the travels throughout the galaxy, the spider woman and octopus woman.
There's another one, a giant blob which molds itself around him.
And I think it finally gets trapped inside some giant snail or something like that.
How would you classify that?
Well, they ask stories about sex and of course him and Farrell explored the stagnant relationship to his mother, his sisters.
It's years since the first time there was a money crisis.
There are psychological fantasies, extremely Freudian.
And they are not about normal sexual relationships.
And certainly in supervirtual relationships, for example, he's doing all the water wishes for.
He's writing about what he thinks is really flat sexual activity.
Gosh, wow, feeling about it.
It's the same with the modern Strange Relations plan.
So excited about it.
Boy and girls get a sex in it.
They swap around and it's a good thing.
I think Farrell is going to write it.
He's using it as a source of shock or his funny words.
But to explore things he thinks it's a good story.
Would you write that it's good sex and science fiction?
A good sexual science fiction.
Why wouldn't you use a label like that?
I would say it's an interesting science fiction story that explores the various sexual attitudes in relationships.
Although you talk about legal levels.
I think it was that one open to me, my sister, which has been found in science fiction.
There was probably one in those particular theories.
Which was almost a precursor of the Essex House novel.
It had the great long snake-like thing going down the hero's mouth.
It may help with the poor.
There's a world-removement of supervirtuals where he is just injecting sexual relationships into his stories to juice them up.
Would you say that Silverberg and Jack's sexual relationships in his stories?
We decided that Compton does the same thing in one of his stories.
There's always Jack's Silverberg story.
He's a filing system of character, actions, reactions and emotions.
He just pushes them and puts them in and tells them that it's his characters that they feel.
He just needs to be thrown into a random chapter.
There's no real feeling at all.
So actually sex things don't work because they're dragged in.
Before the other one, he plays the homosexual.
He drags that in.
The horrible thing about sexuality is that he kills himself.
There's no real conviction.
I can't believe any of Silverberg's writings.
I tried reading the second trip recently.
About 50 pages, he was screaming so loudly.
You read one and you read them all.
Especially with the sex things.
Maybe something we haven't discussed yet is
perhaps we have briefly in the world inside of the society in which sex is
governed and controlled by the government, E.G. and the wanting seed by Anthony Burgess.
The main theme of this book is that because of overpopulation, the government is advocating
and encouraging homosexuality and castration and anything in fact to limit births.
Has anyone got any comments?
No, it doesn't work.
The populace eventually rejects it.
That's usual.
In one way or another.
The whole society breaks down.
In fact they start eating each other.
Do you think Silverberg is a virgin?
The panel reads the article about the age of the NGO by the Gatting-Miles
in science fiction on the sex and population problem.
The very good guy, I'm already saying something about the whole problem is trying to suppress
the so-called unnatural age over the years of the so-called unnatural age.
He was just saying anything really unnatural was something like
a foresight of trying or something like that.
Nothing but barrens, extremes, heavens, all the kind of things that are natural.
People do it.
It's natural, yeah.
Something unnatural is flying without wings.
That's what he was giving up.
Do you think we should be there by definition to be natural?
One thing we can do is quite a mess.
Perhaps since we had a question about Supergirl a while ago
I might recall talking about Larry Nivens' article on Superman
and his sexual life.
It's not an opinion.
Most of all, Larry is born there in ways.
The man is still one of the people.
Yes, the very favorite Superman is a man of steel.
He should have no real control over his sexual act.
I've made the first study going to rip the woman apart
the minute he starts making love to her.
And what is playing in the film?
Supergirl's heart is beating ten times more.
Oh, this is playing for the ladies.
Supergirl's also a Superdog.
She was like a kryptonite as a conceptist.
I don't know what that serious side effects is.
I can't believe I can't believe I'm trying to get out of this guy's chunk of kryptonite.
Why, so good.
How is that natural to get for a kryptonite?
Good job.
The world is doing it.
I think I'll just make a call at the wedding or what.
I don't know.
I'd rather be on this one.
I'd have to be on it rather. I knew you knew whatever that was.
I mean, I can do it the way we do it.
How do we do it?
Well, I'll put it on.
I noticed you've got one John Brommer's Productions of Time.
Do you want to mention that one?
Yes, we can discuss John Brommer for a while.
We've still got 20 minutes to fill in.
Oh, I'd have a break.
The idea of this book, while they don't actually have any explicit sex,
is that people from the future sort of take thrills.
I can't catch this.
So you plug yourself in and have a thrill that someone else has experienced.
They get together a bloke who's keen on pornography, a drug addict,
a bloke who's was an alcoholic and now recovered,
but can't touch the stuff.
Homosexual, lesbian, throws them all together and tries to get some good stuff on tape.
So, we're people in the future to enjoy.
Comments?
I'll read it.
I think another one had sort of run as a novel where he's dealing with so-called sexual perversions.
I think possibly he's a little bit like Silberberg and he's just tossing these things in.
And just for the readers' entertainment, it doesn't read that well anyway.
The general theme of this book, the whole theme of the book,
is sort of wrapped around this plot of perversions.
But as it seems to show away from actual sex scenes,
his sex is more or less indirect.
Although he does seem to write it into the plot a lot better than some other writers.
It's necessary it comes in.
Oh, look, let's get off John Brunner. Let's talk about the sex scenes in the book.
Oh, we're on it.
I didn't know you were on it.
Is that how you find them?
Is anyone sort of ready to sex scenes in half a class?
Yes, he has.
Oh, what is the most powerful sex scene in all of science fiction?
It's the fourth window.
Oh, yeah.
Move your credit.
The equation for Moonlander thinks down into this so-called lunatic.
And at one place, a very noble sentence definition or something goes for a girl somewhere.
And when they come back, all of that is going to be more and more unambiguous.
And he says, hmm, they have been thinking, not people,
but I can think it will do it.
It's probably the most embarrassing few paragraphs of the book.
On the other hand, there's a panel read, sent to do it by D.G. Compton.
Yes, yes.
It's about sexuality and sexuality in particular.
From what little?
A short story of a fiducian poem called Dane Pia.
From what I've read of Compton, which isn't very much,
it seemed to me that he always liked to make sex appear dirty,
and something that should be hidden away.
But he liked to make it appear dirty and something that you feel revolved with.
Well, perhaps he...
We carry with people that have talked about some kind of theological dirt,
and that's what's left of him, in the book.
That Compton was very good at doing characterization with people.
And it seems very real, and that's why many people do it.
That's definitely kind of a bad thing.
Well, that has many people.
Perhaps it appeared to me that his character is just a peer-dirty nun of him.
I wouldn't be friends with any old ones.
I really existed.
I say one more thing, particularly with Sister Joy.
The whole point of the novel is that the female narrator,
who's very brave now, does feel this way.
And if you follow it, it's for sure that rather than underage,
on the other hand, there's lots of jolly good sex in chronicles.
Well, you just, you know, if you fancy someone, you can just say,
how about it, and all together,
things dirty or nasty in chronicles,
that's tremendously moving sequence,
and the great Zarka, who being up forcibly,
makes love to the late-night question,
I suppose, is that a right thing?
No, it's the one I was thinking of, actually.
Yes, well, as I said, there is a distinction between aggressive,
love-making, and rape.
It's a very subtle one sometimes in fiction.
I've had that particular scene extremely moving,
very much of the characters, certainly not dirty,
and nasty, I wanted to give that subject.
But maybe I'm doing it wrong, but...
Yes.
I'm sure as speaking of putting the spirited on tape,
there's a good eight-pater-back of a few years ago.
I think there was a big ball of wax, wasn't it,
where they feed sort of signals directly into the brain,
and they sort of bypassing the whole problem,
and sort of direct sort of effects in the head as it is.
It was all in the imagination anyway, I think.
All these sort of perversions, you know.
That's right, the Fred Paul one, you know.
I reckon, for reasons like,
I've come down to the north of it,
but it's kind of a sort of, you know,
like, a great method of that.
Which way?
The four-fold left.
Um...
There was a great variety of curves.
I know the focus.
You know, one in that, I think,
is very much an extra...
a movie-ass system, so...
so...
so, um...
so, I reckon, I would say...
the piece has a really large theme,
which is the big thing.
Yeah, well, it's a sort of...
Call of telepathy.
No more of most music.
Quite literally, there are all sorts of possibilities.
It's just up to the guy's imagination.
They can do anything, but it's all in the brain, isn't it?
I was sort of giving him sexual experiences from his child,
but then there was a...
some very effective sex themes in that book, actually.
I sort of...
Yeah.
I was wondering, what they do to the sick
in long-term good, the iron dream.
Oh, yeah.
Ah, but there is no excuse of the sick.
Non-dial has the whole thing in...
Yeah, I was just grand, so he took it from me.
Glad it's here, sick.
You read too much of that afterwards.
Well, Michael Morkock describes his sort of...
sort of... sort of...
sort of a sort of sexual novel, isn't it?
There's no excuse of that, really.
But it's in a diffugetry, and...
all his...
So, there's one more thing,
which we...
described in just a very long, nice, of love.
We thought, in the...
people had, you know, dead reactions they played over the years,
but all he was trying to transform
the coin was to Morkock,
because I'll hear more about that.
But with...
reproduced in a surrealistic fashion,
we're feeling that...
with...
you know, a multi-dialogical.
Which book was it?
Probably the early...
Stornbringer books.
Second...
which isn't the second one.
The Book of Souls.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course.
The Bible, the sexual imagery.
You know, there's explicit sex,
and there's also...
stuff with the Bible,
all the sort of things that...
there's no normal secret.
Of course, Behold the Man, there was the...
sex and that realistic sex of the...
character masturbating with Cholbun,
and who goes back, you know, three times.
Uh, there's...
are...
there's...
explicit...
sex and...
what?
There's no normal sex.
Yeah.
Well, page.
Actually, yeah, I was just talking about
symbolical sex. What about the...
story in... I think it was...
Quark number two, where the preparation of one...
to love it for... dinner.
Yeah.
Which is a, you know, nice love story.
Which the...
the young woman is told
how to prepare...
her boyfriend for the...
supper. Sort of... drinking.
Really?
Really, yeah.
Yeah.
Of course.
Uh, do you think in 2001,
there's sexual pleasure around being taught
by a black woman?
Yeah.
I don't know, but don't talk to that like me
or fly away.
I'm...
something I'll...
assume for...
about sex and fantasy,
you seem to have read my fantasy.
I guess it's more...
the stress in that science fiction. You haven't got all the gadgets.
Science fiction can get you to help you along.
Yeah, I don't know.
You can say what you think.
You think Conan's sex life is.
Yeah, I don't know.
He's always seems to be having...
he never seems to get in.
You know?
He rides off into the sun set with...
Maiden under one arm and his horse between his legs
and that's the face.
He never seems to really get in.
We're listening to a fave
hanging around with six strong men.
What do you reckon, Pasha?
Hmm?
Like in the...
very large ones, there is...
You mean, you know,
he meets a girl
and he takes her up to a bedroom,
then you get dot, dot, dot,
then it's the next day.
I mean, surely there's an old point about sex
and his sex and fantasy writing.
I think it's...
you know, similar to the...
the interest in violence
in...
vampirism
and horror films in general.
And it doesn't even matter
if the fantasy novel really...
er...hero
lay as a heroine because the whole story
is filled with
sexually
and therefore satisfying experiences
on an abstract plane.
I mean, fantasy
is essentially an unusual sex.
Not just an unusual
explicit sex, it's a steal.
I mean, in the case of the show,
if they want a read a novel
that's explicitly sexual,
they can go over with any of the
popular sex novels in the show.
But being sexist,
the mind
of the sort of the source result
in particular seems to me
the very simplistic
sexual nature
of the injury.
I mean, we're looking at massive sores, you know.
I've never had a sex with two guys
come to the shop and buy
sort of the source result.
You know, it just seems to be a lie.
It will get
kicked out of
sort of the source result
of the fantasy and vampire horror films.
You mean
to sexually read the little guys
like big sores?
Well,
don't they just like the big muscles?
Are they feeling inadequate and all that sort of thing?
No, I don't think it's matter of feeling inadequate.
You know,
it's just that they like reading
the sort of things because perhaps
it's still sexual.
The sores of fellow symbols.
How many years have you been playing for?
I've been playing for this guy.
You've got a lesbian vampire.
They're becoming much more explicit.
And I fully expect
that some of the sort of three
novels
will basically become more explicit.
I'm trying to set a new Elbrich novel
that is explicit.
Why is it explicit?
Well, it's just that you said the business start
and it's that you can't make out the crack
in the case of the women in those traditions.
I'm sorry.
They made a lot of changes.
So,
the three novels
are good.
They, he went out and he hacked about the time.
The whole point of the three novels.
That's it.
You've got a record.
Yeah.
No, I can't.
Everybody goes and they fix it.
The reason Tom and Sagan there is a very
valid reason
for being
in horror films.
I think that's an experience thing.
Why horror films so popular with young girls?
Well,
they said what was very much real,
that was witchcraft.
I'll let you go.
I mean, the immediate possibility
of the range
of witchcraft
was there for a thousand times.
We can have
a lot of great pictures here.
But they all had to turn to the top on their own.
And
the older girls over 20
can certainly have any
nearest-most feelings for witchcraft.
They get more of
a more steady
factory life, astrology
and terror and stuff like that.
But I think it's very interesting that very young
girls
read the three novels
and vampire novels
and horror to get
the pants to get onto the ones
to pose.
Since we're running out of time
I think we'll keep moving along and reach
a good climax.
You want to say something cool?
Yes?
Since
when you mentioned
that, where Kinder is from the young girls,
what do you think
has been
the adult
history of sexualization
around
in the short stories
and in the heart of the world?
Oh, um,
actually, if anyone's
read an anthology, I think it's
a thing in my eye or something,
there's a very good short story in there
with the building of numerous sex situations.
There are all sorts of bizarre
bisexual relationships
occurring between the hero and the aliens.
Unfortunately, I haven't got a book here
so I can't read any of it out.
That's sort of rather good, but then again
his novel, I think it's
when Harley was one,
it contained some very bad sex relations.
Sort of almost as bad
as probably worse than Silverberg,
but since it's one of his first novels
I guess it's excusable to say.
Yeah,
he hasn't even got any photos of it.
Yeah, and it's Paul's,
there's just sort of a pop in Halfway 2
and they're totally hero about it, you know.
With Harley
having his crisis, you know.
All of his name is
often bed with the doctors and that.
Does your gene
not allow, I sort of briefly in the shop
about a computer that makes you a female?
I've only seen the cover,
I doubt it wasn't about that.
So, how do you think
there's a future for this
title of fiction, you know,
machine, computer,
given all together?
In this new Heinlein novel
the female computer
marries Lazarus Long
and becomes
a clone, the consciousness of the computer.
Clones with a body
which is forced, bed and ground
and marries the hero.
So it's in love with the computer.
And then there's a computer in
one of Heinlein's
moon is a harsh mistress which has
an orgasm when it sees half the earth's liner.
Oh no, it's been bed and ground.
Computer?
Yeah.
It changes at all the blocks
that's why it changes in this.
True.
True, you've got it.
I thought it was a thing that's a tool.
Could it be a health
or a success?
Yeah, health 900 in
his voice is very ambiguous
in that.
What's the difference?
Health?
Well, I think it's
a bit ambiguous to say it's ambiguous.
I thought it was a different
state of the art.
It was very later because he had
only warm wood
in the film.
He was
recorded
double GV's above
in two human actions.
So he always came across
an enormous presence.
I don't know if it's
an extremely asexual voice, but it's ambiguous.
I think both the astronauts
they were
pretty asexual to me.
Yeah, it's not the whole environment.
Actually the computer in Barbarello
was much more interesting
than the relationship
with Barbarello.
You mean
how it rapes the machine?
Oh, that's the thing.
It is an instance.
Sort of a hazard of the sexual organ.
It's a giant rule.
Anyone?
That's an example of sex in the SF film
they did in there.
Anyone like to hazard a guess as to
what form sex will take in future SF?
You think
because
more explicit sex scenes are
allowable now,
writers all
tend to include explicit sex scenes
in their books
and shy away from the
unusual sex.
It's a sort of
one hazard in that
they're going to use more explicit sex and not use
so much imagination.
I just sort of become more pornographic
and rather than more unusual
sex scenes.
He says it's
full farmers books.
The ones that's written for SF are much better
than
what he'd written
when he was just writing SF
at time stopping.
It's certainly more amazing
and more
erasing and
well, you know,
I guess it's a bit below that.
Now I think that
certainly
when farmer porn stops out at any
fiction like the River World
I think we really let those head of his go.
Well
I don't think anybody's encroaching
in sexual imagination.
What do you mean a little snake in the womb?
That sort of thing
that lives in the womb of a young lady?
No, there's a whole
sexual terror
with sexual issues
and that means
to truly terrify
it.
It has never been done in science fiction
in that way.
The relationship
really turns into a walk
when the guy's taking over the turnaround
and I think that's what it is.
I thought the bit was the
iron teeth from the guy
that was a bit true.
That killed everybody.
It's definitely the first chapter
of the story.
And that terrifying line
that's made up of the CLT
so there's this line where
he was a snake
and when the guy was tripping in
and he was on for a play
and he was about to sort of finish the job
he was like, he warped with this snake.
And
this snake is
trying to do the cry.
That's the movement.
Any part
of the story?
Do you see that as a possible area
which science fiction may develop
more along that lines
than as straight science fiction?
We're just going to talk about
the point as it goes
to business.
But certainly
if science fiction is made
any name for itself
as a magic of literature
at most point is
bringing into you
a civil history
sexual relationships to the most per se
old-fashioned
language which had nothing
to evade some kind of a story.
If you're going to
write about the snake
or have a traditional taste of it
we all have it in the book.
But if you can't do it, imagine it
differently.
I don't know.
I think you just invent
another tradition.
But if the sexual
relationship of the creatures
are explored
they probably do not
like karma.
No, it's like a window.
You know, this is the most killing.
But over there, here I just think
you're Christ if you're going to write
some of it through and expect it to be
part of the science fiction culture.
I'll bring up his friend and have
the computer and talk about it.
I'll bring it up.
I think we can close then.
Well, if no one has anything else to say.
Well, there is a lot of
rhetoric that we didn't touch on.
I think that film has been used
the sort of situation that you have there.
We get population pressure on the police
which is sort of a moratorium
on this.
I think it was 30 years.
I prefer the
TX1138 film to that one.
The way?
TX1138.
It's a similar sort of film.
A situation like that
would never exist because
any government would try to force it
if it's a democratic government would be out on their neck.
What kind of democratic government?
I might just...
I might expect that if you give
democratic government to the century.
Tendon century?
Can you name one?
Australia.
Australia?
We probably ought to
see it pretty hard.
I think the government is
tending towards
being more non-democratic and that's politics.
I think we better sort of close this panel
now too.
Oh, gee, just when we get started.
I'll
remind people at 3.30 there's a talk by
Dr Peter Dullin.
Thanks.
Don't swear at money, just
compromise.
Who's
lecturer in psychology
at Adelaide University and who's going to speak
on the subject of
science fiction in the occult.
So, I'll just
leave it to him.
Well,
I've been
a long time reader of
science fiction
possibly
for about 25 years now.
I've been absorbing
this particular brew.
I've also been
on the fringes of
psychological research for around about the same
period of time.
And I think that this
twin set of certain
circumstances seem to get some feedback.
This twin set of
circumstances should have led me long before
now to start
to put the two together.
Certainly in fact being invited to speak to you
today that led me to wonder
whether there was any connection between the two
interests.
It may be thought to be
insulting perhaps
to suggest the sorts of
interests that lead people
or the sorts of people
that are interested in
science fiction are likely to be
the sorts of people who are interested in the occult.
Because we all know
some very odd sorts of people who are interested in the occult.
I see no evidence
looking around me that
there are very odd people interested in science fiction.
And certainly some of the oddest
of the people
that I've known
who have been interested in
the occult have been
or profess themselves interested in science fiction
but usually if the R.L.
fan thought variety.
And not of the
after-clark
or even John Windham
variety.
That's one sort of connection however.
And I suppose that
a generous way of putting it
is that the sort of people who are interested in the occult
and the sort of people
who are interested in science fiction
are both likely to
also be
oriented towards the idea
of the universe being a rich
and wonderful place
in which many extraordinary things can happen.
But there are of course other
ways in which science fiction
and the occult are connected.
For instance there are a tremendous number
of science fiction novels
and stories
which
either have occult themes
or refer to the occult.
Now I think that if you look at the way
in which science fiction
refers to the occult
some very interesting things emerge.
There seem to be
obviously because science fiction is such
a mixed
kind of
genre
a number of different
sorts of use of the occult
in science fiction
in the straight fantasy
situation obviously
it's a dream mechanism
or something of that kind.
You can just throw it in to enable things to
happen that couldn't otherwise happen.
However, and
given this
I don't think there's an enormous
amount of point in
saying a lot about it on the fantasy side
although it might be worthy
of note that one theme
that very frequently turns up
in fantasy which uses
the occult as part of its
material
that
there seems very often to be
accepted by the author
and presumably therefore by the reader
that there's some sort of opposition
between regulation science
and the occult
thus in books like
for instance The Incomplete Enchanter
which I think one of the most delightful
works actually in any area of
science fiction I've read
but that clearly
was a sort of fantasy
but one of the striking points was
that where magic works
but science didn't
that is
the person could do
remarkable things by reciting
formulae but his matches wouldn't work
and I think that's very significant
but we'll return to that later
but to look at the more regulation
science fiction are
I suppose the more
science extension
sort of science fiction
there where the occult is
referred to
very seldom is
it left in the condition
in which it is in our everyday world
in the attitudes of people
in real life today
that is there are very few
science fiction books
which refer to
ESP or any such
theme
or any occult theme
while at the same time
giving much
credence to the
common view
to the among intellectuals
anyway of skepticism
the only one
that springs to mind
at once
as a contradiction of what I've just said
is
Hoyle's black cloud where
the rather absurd Russian
scientist
I think had some very hard words
to say
about people believing in ghosts
and this kind of thing
but then he said some very silly things anyway
and not a character
to be taken seriously
indeed I don't believe that any of Hoyle's characters
are characters to be taken seriously
but leaving that aside
most people have either
ignored
the occult completely
or their world of the future
or their possible world or whatever it is
has accepted
psychic events
as being fairly normal
sorts of things that just happen
even in something like
John Wyndham's chrysalids
where clearly
telepathy was something
which most people
didn't
expect to happen
it wasn't because it was unbelievable
but it was
precise as speak
it was because it was different
there was no suggestion that there was anything
unlikely about it
now
on the other side
of the
ballpark
we have the real life situation
that
there are a tremendous number of people
and highly intelligent
highly educated people
who are very very skeptical
about
ESP
I suspect most of these cannot be science fiction
readers or writers
if you
leave it the last time I've just been making
so there is a perhaps an interesting observation
the sort of people that display
the most typical scientific skepticism
about the occult today
are not members
of our confraternity
now
this business of skepticism
is
I think the oddest phenomenon
of all in the occult field
and
I've
in fact
devoted some
attention as a psychologist
it's been something I've been interested in
in the phenomena
of skepticism
and one of the things which is very striking
is
the way in which skepticism
alters your appreciation of evidence
why is the atmosphere so different
or what is it that's so different
about the attitude to ESP
in science fiction even among people
that don't in the writing science fiction books
make ESP a central theme
or ESP or the occult
for that matter
well
when you look at for instance the chrysalids
what's so weird and wonderful
about the phenomenon that's being talked about
all it appears to be
is that certain individuals
have got a built-in radio
there's nothing terribly astonishing about it
they have perhaps
an unfair advantage over the rest of humanity
in that they can communicate with each other
over considerable distances
without using apparatus and so on
but there's nothing
particularly odd about it
it's just something that happens
similarly I suppose
even in the incomplete enchanter with magic
again
the magic is a pretty casual kind of thing
pretty ordinary it's just another kind of technology
it happens to be
as I've suggested in this particular case
postulated that it's inconsistent
with the other sort of technology
the techno technology
but it's a very ordinary
very everyday
the
attitude
of skepticism which the
scientific man in the street
appears to have
towards the occult
in other words
generates some of the oddity of the phenomenon
itself
ESP is hard to prove
not because it's a
weird, intractable phenomenon
but because people don't believe in it
and I think that one can
illustrate this fairly well by imagining
what would happen if one did live
in one of the science fiction worlds
in which I've suggested there are many
even among people
the worlds created by writers who are not themselves
writing about ESP
in which ESP
or magic for that matter are facts of life
if somebody
is supposed to be
a psi person
and they claim
to have got some information from somebody else's mind
the answer is oh yes
well you know
we must stop this happening or we will
we must make use of this ability
or something like this
now in the
skeptics world
the result
the immediate question is
how can I know that you've got it from his mind
now just imagine if you came
up to somebody in the morning and you said
um
I hear that
there
was a terrible air crash last night
I think it was in the Lebanon
and the chap says
how do you know
and you said well I heard it on the radio
hmm
expect me to believe that
prove it
and you try to prove for instance
that you didn't see a newspaper lying across the back of a chair
as you walked
after you were sitting in the room this morning
or that
but you didn't get it by ESP
it would be a pretty
intractable sort of task
the fact is the difficulties of the situation
are created by the skeptics attitude
now
I am becoming sort of paranoid about these skeptics
because
and I may say before I go any further
I am not by any means convinced
of all aspects of the evidence about
ESP and so on
I just don't know
I'm very much a fenced sitter
but it seems to me that the skeptics
are behaving very peculiarly
um
in fact
there are plenty of phenomena
that are just as unrepeatable
just as difficult to control of the ESP
from their claim to be
and
I have the impression that in this field
and indeed in a number of other fields
the skeptic
and it's not only skeptics that are sort of seeing a minute
is in fact
creating ghosts for itself to chase
that in fact he is
making the thing seem a
darn sight more mysterious than it need be
I say it's not only skeptic system
because I think
that I see similar symptoms
in certain other areas of activity
I was at a paper the other day
given by Professor JC Smart
who used to be the head of the philosophy department
at Adelaide
and he was talking about
modal logic
in fact his paper was entitled
possible worlds
which sounds like a good science fictiony sort of title
and that's one of the reasons I went
the other reason I went is a Jack
very good friend of mine
but um
I expected to hear something fairly gutsy
about ideas of possibility
what I actually got was a feverish attack
on modal logic
and why was modal logic being attacked
because
in Jack Smart's analysis of it
it looked as if he was going to have to believe
if he wanted to use modal logic
in the simultaneous existence
of an infinite number of
possible worlds in which different things
happened
and so that when
in modal logic
the analysis of for instance
the statement
if I Ron Barassi had imported
a few West Australians I would have won
involved in fact in
phishing a
possible world in which Ron Barassi
actually did import lots of Australians
and win
or lots of West Australians and win
now
my view is that in this particular instance
Jack Smart was in fact
creating a ghost
there was no philosophical
validity in his belief that it was
necessary to actually believe
in these possible worlds in order to
use modal logic
now both Jack Smart
and a number of other philosophers
similarly in the area
of the problem of mind
um appear to be on a crusade against
what in fact Jack calls
ghost stuff
um that is the stuff
of which mind is made up
he's desperately anxious to avoid a philosophical
position which involves him
in believing in some
mysterious mental substance
in fact
I believe it's perfectly possible to get by
without this mysterious mental substance
but it seems to me the interesting thing
about his position on these
different topics
is that he's creating a
situation of mystery in order not to believe in it
um but in fact the philosophical
argument which say that there is a mystery
a weakling philosophical arguments
for the position out of which he's
generating the mystery now go back
to the ESP
who was it that made ESP
so mysterious
well it is true that
J.B. Rein
started the ball rolling himself by
taking a sort of
mysterious materialist line
but let's face it that's just J.B. Rein
there's nothing in the phenomena
which has this weird
uh
ghostly
uh implication
all that the phenomena say is that
some dear robber is getting some information and we don't know
how the hell the heck they got it
there's nothing mysterious or
ghostly about that
and
when you look at the evidence
that for instance ESP doesn't obey
the laws of ordinary science
what you find is that that
evidence is very weak
very much weaker than the
evidence that ESP occurs for instance
now look at the skeptics argument
I've often found myself arguing with the skeptic
who's saying something like
um
well ESP can't occur
because
those evidence that suggests it doesn't
obey the inverse square law
and anything
which involves radiation from points
got to obey that well then you look at the evidence
that ESP doesn't obey the
inverse square law and that evidence
is rotten
in fact the evidence that ESP doesn't obey
the inverse square law is about as strong as the evidence that radio doesn't obey the inverse square law
so
what's happening is rather like
somebody saying stands to reason
there can't be any unicorns because there wouldn't
be enough young virgins to go around
well
this
is again I think a beautiful example
of people creating the ghosts
that they're not going to believe in
the fact is that nothing quite knows
where science ends and the occult
takes over
um
there may be people
around and I suspect
with Jack's Mart I'm being very nasty
to Dave
for no particular reason
um
but there are people who really believe
that most of the basic concepts of science
are there
laid out ready for our use
that there's nothing big and new
to be discovered
now this seems to me
to be
and that is that really
that there are no whole fields of new forces
and new sets of laws
which enable things to relate together very differently
from the way they appear to the net
um
and it seems to me this is a very unlikely
state of affairs
and it's a very unlikely state of affairs
for a number of reasons
one is
simply that
when you look at all the basic concepts
on which science, scientific thinking
is based today
you find
that you only have to think for about
three minutes to generate a paradox
whether you talk about time
whether you talk about cause
uh
whether you talk about
even I suppose
a relevance which are
a concept which lies
behind science very strongly
where most scientists don't notice it
all of these things
generate paradoxes very easily
and
Bertrand Russell
among many other philosophers
pointed out that whenever you come across a paradox
it's about time to be doing some
philosophizing something is going wrong
there's something wrong with your basic concepts
um well this being so
there's room for
an immense amount of reshuffling
of our basic concepts in science
who knows what
when the reshuffling takes place
will appear to be obvious
which appears to be impossible now
who knows what new forces
there is room for
or new relationships
I certainly wouldn't be so bold as to make any guesses
meanwhile we have claims
that there are phenomenon
um
it's claimed that some people
do obtain information from others
which information
it seems very difficult
to
see as being transmitted by any of the means we know
the true in transmitting information
um
on the face with
not a very astounding sort of claim
uh
it is true that
when you try to
prove these claims
you run up against difficulties
though only because the standards of evidence
for which you're being required to
uh
reach
are being determined by the skeptics
in fact
most of the experiments that someone like
in ESP for instance that someone like Mark Hansel
dismisses
would be in most branches of science
regarded as pretty watertight experiments
after all Mark Hansel
in order to discredit an ESP experiment
only has to show
that there's some way in which somebody could have cheated
including the experimenter
or including if necessary all five experimenters
now what branch of science
of regulation science could stand up to this
how many physics experiments do we know
that have been carried out under conditions where this sort of cheating has been ruled out
doesn't very often happen
in fact a lot of physics experiments including some of the very simplest ones
not only could cheating have been carried out
a lot of the time but there's plenty of
of contrary evidence
to take experiments
very simple experiment that
that used to be done regularly at school
and in my school anyway
of showing that you can put ice in the bottom of a boiling tube
and boil the water at the top without melting the ice
I remember having a very revealing experience one day
of coming in after that lesson
and finding
neatly wrapped up in the piece of wire gauze
in which we had thought that these visor-beam plates
nine nips the boiling tube on the desk
was in fact a piece of glass
and it's clear that our
science teacher hadn't been that confident
and had put one over on us
now
in fact he was well aware
that the odds were quite high that if he tried this experiment himself it wouldn't work
and indeed
for every once that a scientist has repeated most of the simple scientific experiments
thousands of school teachers and school children have repeated them and got the opposite results
but who takes that into account
I would hardly say the evidence however was consistent
the fact is that the standards of evidence are determined by the level of preparedness to believe
of the people who are the actual critics and judges of those experiments
so we have a situation where we have a phenomenon which on the face of it doesn't seem
in my view or set a phenomenon which on the face of it doesn't seem in my view
or that intrinsically unlikely
and a set of people who are controlling the levels of belief in the scientific community
who are influencing on all levels the response to the data
now the science fiction writers of course
writing of future worlds
are not looking at it from the point of view of the scientific skeptic
they're saying let's envisage a future world
in which we set our adventure or whatever it may be
well one of the things that might have happened in this future world is that ESP has become accepted
and as soon as it becomes accepted there it is a perfectly ordinary part of life
it may have its problems, it may have a need for new legislation, indeed it almost certainly will
but it doesn't look very odd in that context at all
now one concept which I think that the scientists really ought to get hold of in fact
or one notion that they really ought to get hold of which I think is a very important one
which all that I've been saying illustrates to be important
is this notion that the process of setting a priori probabilities on events
is not a part of science as yet
we have innumerable techniques for assessing evidence in certain fixed contexts
for designing experiments
for reasoning out with some traumatic exceptions
what are the consequences of theories
what should be the prediction of theories
what we do not have is any scientific techniques for setting a priori probabilities
these are set by nothing more nor less than the atmosphere in the scientific community
and every now and then this leads to quite bizarre results
in 1915, Vagan had put forward his theory of continental drift
which was entirely consistent with the evidence then available
it was a reasonably right today's stance and it was a sane sounding theory
that you had a layer of rock which was actually not quite as solid over long periods of time
as it appeared to be over the short periods of time that we have contact with it
and that the consonants were floating on this soft layer and moving other bits of rock were floating and moving around
and it traced out the ways in which outlines of various bits of the map
as it is now would have fitted together
or very reasonable
in fact this theory was created by the scientific community with complete score
for some reason which I can't quite tie down
it seemed to be just basically unlikely
and for many years Vagan's theory was just a scientific curiosity
now there's enough called Vagan who put forward this theory
and weirdly the consonants almost look as if it might be right
though of course its nonsense was the attitude
now of course we can measure in inches per year how much the consonants are drifting
but as I say there's a very good example of completely capricious assignment of apriori probabilities
like ESP
and it's the capricious assignment of apriori probabilities to phenomena like ESP
that creates the experimental difficulty in showing that it occurs
and let's say the science fiction writer's use of the concept as an everyday one illustrates very well
but this is the case as soon as you think in terms of a world in which ESP is not regarded as extraordinary
then it really well isn't extraordinary
that's all we're listed with
really there are other areas in ESP and a cult doesn't just mean ESP
phenomena like ghosts for instance mixing with the occult
as indeed I suppose phenomena like demons
of course a demon phenomenon
but and these of course also have been treated by science fiction writers
although by and large demons and straight magic tend to be dealt with in the fantasy category
rather than in the straight science fiction category
I think there are probably one or two of Shekly's things that might be regarded as science fiction
as opposed to fantasy which dealt with the year after and so on
immortality ink is that much Shekly's
I think that's probably science fiction just not from fantasy
but as I said by and large these are fantasy
and one of the reasons they tend to be fantasy I think is because as soon as you start dealing with magic per se
you start getting this thing about the about its opposition to science coming in
as soon as you start saying or as soon as science fiction writers start saying for instance
you can get this done by muttering this formula
or by making up a little poem or something
then you're dealing in a world which is I suppose sufficiently different from the everyday one we're used to
that you feel like postulating some other great differences
and you're very conscious of the fact that you're dealing with the abnormal
and then I think this being so you're now able to get a kind of anti-science bias
if you like in your thinking and to exaggerate all of the things which go with magic
including its distinction from science
and the other thing I suppose is that I myself for instance would assign very low priorities
at April I probably have aprioride probabilities to controlling the world by muttering formulae
certainly want to do a muttering formulae but things like making water boil and this kind of thing
I would on the whole things rather unlikely although I stand open to be convinced
and this being so the person who puts these things into his story must be aware
that he's standing up against the whole background of today's technological thinking
and he might just as well do the whole whole thing and say technology doesn't work here
we work on this other pattern instead
so that's what happens with that now with the afterlife concept I think something else happens
I think we tend to become here when we operate the science section producers
be dazzled with the notion of a separate occult the notion of ghost stuff
as it's very difficult to talk about actual ghosts without thinking in terms of ghost stuff
it's easy for me to say of ESP that doesn't involve ghost stuff
of the mind that doesn't involve ghost stuff
when I come to talk about ghosts there seems to be something a bit strange about saying that doesn't involve ghost stuff
but on the other hand I don't think this is necessarily so
it seems to me that again there's nothing in principle inconsistent with any science that we have
of the idea that a being by existing as a living being in this world has effects
on some physical aspect of his environment which affects the cyst which affects continue to act
the whole system is so darn complex
I wouldn't be at all surprised to find that something akin to personality can still exist in these effects
in the complex of effects that we have on our environment
I'm not spilling this forward as a theory
I'm merely saying that theories along these sorts of lines don't seem to me to be ruled without a chord
by the current position of science
furthermore suppose they were
suppose the idea of the afterlife or any of the phenomena associated with ghosts and so on
were to involve principles that science has not yet thought of
under what circumstances would these become occult principles
I've already suggested there's room in science for a whole lot of new principles
there's room for whole new sets of forces, whole new sets of relationships
now if we're forced to agree that afterlives involve these new sets of principles, new sets of forces
that we haven't yet envisaged
so be it, but does it follow that these things will be unincorporable in science
nothing about what I've said so far in any way suggests this
now this I think brings me back to Jack Smart and his ghost hunting
here he is saying I must avoid any theory of the mind and the body which involves the mind as ghost stuff
but when does the ghost stuff become ghost stuff?
what does it have to do? well what it has to do is to refuse to be incorporated in the general body of knowledge
in a consistent kind of way
but there's nothing about simply being a kind of stuff we haven't yet identified that tells one that it has this peculiar property
now either Jack is saying there is no more to be found out
there are no grand new principles even if somebody okay may find some small sort of radiation we haven't thought of
but nothing big, nothing that really matters
either he's saying this and since it's obvious that mind is going to be outside
any of the forces and materials that we know of now
that automatically makes mind ghost stuff
or I would have thought he would have to say
well okay if you find your new forces, if you find your new sorts of scientific interaction
then mind stuff gets incorporated in science
and it's not ghost stuff anymore
as I say what applies to mind stuff I see no reason shouldn't apply to ghost stuff
I've no particular reason to think it does
I don't think the evidence for ghosts is frightfully hard as things are going
I don't think the evidence that sometimes when people sit down to guess cards something funny happens
is quite strong
if we're to believe some of the reports emanating from Russia
it's more than just speculation there's some big things happening
unfortunately these reports don't usually come with clear information as to how to obtain similar phenomena ourselves
and I think when you get lots of indirect reports of phenomena like this
and no part of data on how to repeat the experiments and this kind of thing
then you're quite right to be suspicious
and I myself am slightly suspicious for instance I actually remember in animal science fiction etc
a few days ago I came across a copy which had an article about some of the Russian stuff
and talking about this woman who apparently can actually move objects by psychokinesis
and as if it was just perfectly ordinary thing that she was being studied in a laboratory with a zoological apparatus and so on
and sure if this is happening then forget about all the probability stuff
all the card guessing and attempts to get six to come up more often than chance when rolling dice
here we've got real solid phenomena
but unfortunately the world keeps coming across these reports as I say nobody gives clear details
on exactly how we go about trying to find the same thing here
and until they do I think I'm going to remain suspicious
I would be suspicious I suppose if a colleague in my own area of psychology
kept writing me letters about how he was getting marvelous results on his new theory
but never actually described his experiments
I wonder why he didn't
and he never published any papers in which the experiment was clearly written up
so that's where I'm being suspicious
but leaving aside those perhaps overhoed reports
nevertheless it seems to me there are sufficient funny things happening in the ESP research area
to make one feel that it all can't be explained by
fakery, bad statistics and this sort of thing
whether what is happening actually is some sort of communication
I'm somewhat hesitant about
it seems to me that the vast majority of ESP experiments are set up
in such a way that anything statistically abnormal what happens is going to look like communication
and it might just be the statistical things are happening which don't look like communication
which we're not dissecting out
I mean if you set somebody to guess cards and somebody else to try to transmit them
then you tend to look for various kinds of relationships between the guesses and the targets
sure it looks like one person is sending a message to the other person
but what if you found for instance that when a person tried to guess a pack of cards
there was statistically unlikely relationship between the sequence of guesses they produced
and the sequence of targets you would produce by taking the actual target sequence
reversing it and moving forward ahead
that wouldn't look so much like communication
and then you'd simply say something statistically odd is happening
we're just selecting out the communication like statistically odd things look like
now the other thing I think is of course that
there's a lot of when we come across for instance ESP or individuals with PSI
in books by E.C. Tarden the sort of person
ESP again looks very different from what it looks like in the everyday reports we get of it
the E.C. Tarden and for that matter John Wyndham's PSI phenomena are very much like using an internal telephone
the Telsey Amburton sort of PSI phenomena are like a new kind of mental engineering I suppose
you fiddle around with things by carrying out some sort of mental manipulation which you can only imagine
if you happen to be Telsey Amburton or someone like that which theoretically anybody can
or most people could to some degree but it's a kind of engineering and curiously
uninvolved kind of operation now the real life ESP phenomena accounts fall into two categories
which are both very unlike this they're either the card guessing ones in which a current situation
in which the person who's doing it usually doesn't seem to know when he's doing it
that is he can't tell his good guesses from his bad guesses
and where there seems to be no special feel attached to the experience at all
except perhaps a feeling of pride if he hasn't got so many right on something of this kind
the other kind of everyday report is of a spontaneous flash phenomenon
which usually is highly emotionally charged which doesn't seem to be turn onable at will
and which when I say it's emotionally charged it feels special in that the person says
you know I haven't dreamed last night which was so extraordinary I really must tell you about it
I'm sure it means something I had the most the funniest feeling this morning they say
or something of this kind but also of course the topics emotionally charged normally
in that you know it's usually about Fred falling under a bus or something equally exciting
so with the two kind the ESP card guessing experiment type the spontaneous emotional communication type
and these are both different from the sort you get in ESP stories
which is the casual communication or casual mental engineering type
and I think that science fiction is developing a set of conventions in other words
about psychic phenomena which are quite different from what probably the psychic phenomena if they exist are like
this has happened in other fields too
happens all the time if you read if you watch television you'll find there's a whole set of conventions
about what mental illness is alike which are all things that go with films
as whole set of conventions of course in detective stories but what murderers are like
what detectives are like for that matter which have little relationship to real life
we know what the rules are within the particular field
now I think in the ESP field science fiction writers are in danger of creating a set of conventions
as to what the accounts like or what particularly what Psy is like
which bear little relation to real life Psy assuming there is such a beast
and perhaps it's early enough in ESP for a corrective to be in science fiction
for a corrective to be administered though I rather doubt it
nobody as yet I think has really taken off in their science fiction writing from what we know about ESP for instance
and incorporated that in a realistic style story in future situation
but anyway to sum up there are a number of ways in which the account and science fiction intersect
they intersect through the common interest of the science fiction reader and writer
and the occultist in the universe being a rather less boring place than it is for the ordinary person
they intersect in that the science fiction writer illustrates for us the effect of in real life
of our attitudes to the occult on the evidential situation on what we need
if we are to believe in these phenomena and they intersect in that I suppose they show something about
the way in which our ideas about particular phenomena can be conventionalised within a particular medium
in such a way that they cease to bear any relationship with the real phenomena as they occur in real life
well I think that's all I have to say
I'd be very happy if anyone would use to raise any questions or give us any illustrations
yes
Doctor, can I ask you if there is a specific on some of the novels, if there are novels that you've written, such as The Star, and the First Age,
how can you compare some of the things that you've written that are written by us?
well I'm very bad at titles and authors
I think it would be like to know that you've written anything that I haven't written, it's fairly small
can I run down the check for a second?
yes indeed, yes indeed
going back to you, yes, thanks for being quite there for a second
the stories where he wrote about the people voluntary discorporation
and relishing their spirit into a sort of parallel world
and they were still contactable by or able to contact people living in this world
with new materials
you've written that, there's a type of project that is sort of an old story
and then of course there was Frank Lerner, the genius of the community
he called it like a pre-cognition
pre-cognition, yes, he's a pre-coach
and the latest one that Frank Lerner has written about the idea of the British would be the God-makers
I have read it perhaps, I might remember what it was about
the God-makers, there's a priesthood of the experts inside
yeah
recently got that eventually they can start a diorama and there's a picture on the map
and then having a picture on the camera
and the announcement of the discovery is good
across the classic years of style in the believable sense is good
is good, is good, might not smith
yes, yes
I'm not sure, I don't believe it
I'm referring to the Class 3 analogy for ideological interference
the luck changer, when they produced this girl was a luck changer
and when she was pregnant she changed their business to be a luck
and somehow or other the pilot of her ship connected her up to a physical amplify
and brought her to the slug chance for the entire planet
because everything went so bad, Frank Lerner thought so
who's the chap who has the dog brain and what not
always has a presided communication officer
a janitor, yes
then of course the thing
I was just thinking, that's the opposite way around
then of course the structural film, the healthy energy stories
which have no relation to anything real whatsoever
and no cross-ethnic connection to anything real
yes, well now are you sort of
are you trying to
question what I'm saying
I'm trying to say that science fiction basically is telling stories
that people want to read
and that I agree with you completely
that reality is very boring
most of the time
and again, I mean in the book, we're creating
we're going to have to say
even if it's physical science
it doesn't have to be necessarily good science
all it has to be is believable science or time being
and it's the same with science
the same with all the varieties of physical science
there's no difference between science and science
it doesn't have to be real
all you have to do is tell a good story
and there is a difference between science fiction which is based on real
there's a difference between science fiction which is based on provable, demonstrable science
and science which cannot possibly be true
and science which might be true
if only it could dream up a way of testing it
I would have thought that a bigger distinction within the thing
than the ones that you just made
when you were sort of misting the, you know, might be true, could be true etc
I would have thought that there was a great gap
between the science fiction which said
what if we discovered that
and went on from there
to the science fiction which actually starts off by
said to be denying some of the things that we believe to be true
and says what if instead of
the change in the property is based on
that something quite basically is not there
or is twisted in some way
but I think there's still a tendency for conventions
to arise even here
science fiction, I somebody rather did produce a dictionary
of science fiction ease recently didn't they
in which they had terms like hyperspace
which are purely science fiction notions
but ones which are used throughout science fiction
by different writers in different contexts
and it is extraordinary how the science fiction convention
how wide the science fiction convention has developed
I mean the concept of an alien is in itself
a rather interesting science fiction concept
it's sort of an input to develop that way
yeah but I think it is unfortunate in a way
I want to say unfortunately obviously
you know if you say you're writing stuff to entertain people
and the criteria are people entertained by it
then who wants to tie it down with rules
on the other hand I think that it's worth
I mean there are a lot of people who
when they read science fiction like to pick
something of the what would happen if
it's a different variety
rather than what is instead of what we have
so and so where we're denying the world as it is
and saying what if it isn't different
and if it was different than this
and I think that it's a good idea if in these
what if ones people are aware
when they're conventions are departing from
the comparison with the topic which started them off
so to speak I mean I honestly think that
by and large if one could get on to the
television writers who write things about
mental illness for instance
and get across to them
that what they were presenting mental illness as
was their own convention and nothing to do with mental illness
you know I think on the whole they'd rather put it right
before they went any further
and the fact is they can get away without doing so
because they've got a watching public that'll watch anything
but on the whole it'd be nice if their convention matched the facts
to some degree
maybe they should hold a convention
if one could really talk
that's an interesting thought
I think the same goes with the logic of what you're like
stories about the way
extroversy is being researched today
has been very sort of about
how to get the kind of score industry back to make it real
I'm not suggesting
I don't know how I've got myself into this
I don't want to make prescriptions for science fiction writers
I don't even mind if they ignore the conventions
I just like them to know
I would just wish that they knew when they were doing so
and which ones
and I think that it would be possible for instance
to write science fiction stories which did use
our A science fiction story if one was interested in doing it
which did in fact use a theory of science of ESP
which was entirely consistent with the data we have now
for instance
I think your basic trouble is you can't really expect
all the people who are writing stories to think of really
a really good theory that stands out under the people of the initial assault
every time
a lot of people get around this by setting up their own private universes
they don't have to restate all the postulates every time
and in fact Chandler is what is doggy aspects
in getting around to the other side
he's not made concepts now
but he doesn't have to restate that part of his time
but the fact that he
maybe this isn't the greatest idea ever
because he spends a lot of time trying to draw parallels
between the evolution of the fairy tale world
and years ago the membership of many of his air crimes
world now into a future
many hundreds of times
people who worked out of the system were evolving
universes usually found themselves out against the brick wall
there's one that I might bring up here
that's Marion Midden who's written a whole series of books
not necessarily about the fairy people
but about the same evolving issue
and he brought himself into a corner
because in one of the later ones he postulated
somebody who was brave for luck over a decade generation
the books called Wingwood and it's that something quite different
one of the minor things is this lucky girl
but the point was if you can't go on very many more generations
before you get a lot of very lucky people around
it's really the rest of us who aren't from that problem
there was no way out if he stopped writing that particular book
about four times it was a pretty good area
to which he could do his very best
he had several, that's like the closest thing to ESP was
in his space
I think what has annoyed me and at the same time
interested me very much in sound fiction in this particular area
being in a way what's now analog sound fiction
clearly the run of John Campbell
he was well known to have a pretty legend of stories
that pushed this particular era
the theory was, I don't know if it's really true
the theory going around the line is that he wanted to sell a story to Campbell
he had to bring in ESP somewhere
and in a way this is bad because it's limited
some of the people who had other quite bad stories
would never go around submitting this story
but he did maybe bring up a few new ideas
and maybe got a few people outside the field
and maybe he did bring up a few things about this issue
this is, I think, certainly that the new editor feels the loyalty
Campbell is continuing to fill a lot of his directions
and that he published this article as the Russian exploration
I wish there was more clear information on Russian stuff
someone there wants to do that
thank you
certainly you didn't spread analog out about that
also back from discovery behind the iron tomb
Campbell crossed a few things I'm sorry
that's my end of the story
the only thing I've come across is a book on witchcraft
by a gentleman who believes has a distinction of holding
would first be a witchcraft from one of the American universities
but that again only refers very peripherally to it
it doesn't give one the sort of details one would want
to have one's skepticism knocked down for further
and it states very broadly that the Americans
have got great Psi research programs going on
on a middle free basis as well
it's a matter of some concern whether they can close the ESP gap
and all that kind of nonsense
but no more than that really
let me understand something about what you're trying to say
what you're trying to say is that you don't object to people
about writing about a completely fictitious universe
or some impossible twist of this universe
or something completely reversed and interference
what you're saying is they should know what they do
and they should know all the time
and make it obvious in the stories that they know
how this conflicts with the available realities
that have been tested at the moment
well I suppose in a way I'm saying that
although I wouldn't want to say it quite that strongly
I mean I don't want to be reminded of three paragraph intervals
that the guy knows this
you're saying that so much writing is sloppy
well partly this yes
but the other things I'd like to see at least one story
which does treat with what we do know
and does handle the thing within the evidence
for instance Nynian Marshall
sometime ago his philosopher got himself into an argument
with somebody who said the ESP was just unclear
you couldn't make a proper scientific law
relating to ESP
so he came up with this one
he said well take the law of gravity
why can't we have it consistent with the data we've already got
an ESP law which matches the law of gravity
it might go something like this
and this wasn't being put forward as the law of relating to ESP
but simply as an example of one that might do
first of all we'll say
patterns in the universe
tend to become more similar to one another
now this is just like objects being attracted to one another
patterns tend to become more similar
and they tend to do so
in proportion as A they are complex
B they are already similar
which of course corresponds to objects being attracted
when they're already closer to one another
the law of acceleration is similar
and C there is some quantum type indeterminacy in their makeup
now the next thing to note
that is presumably when people have thoughts
these are very complex patterns
and there must be some similarity in patterning
for two people having similar thoughts
and the human brain is a very very complex organization
and there is indeed quantum type indeterminacy
or something very close to it in the firing of neurons
that is above a certain level of stimulation
you can't say the neuron will fire
but you can specify the probability that it's firing
now in other words
patterns in human brains will be the things
in the universe that we know of
that will be most likely to obey this law
the law doesn't say anything at all
about distance between patterns
anyway this is Ninian Marshall's law
now it would be quite possible to have a science fiction story
based on a law like this
it would be entirely consistent
with what we know so far of ESP
it might have to go further
but what Ninian Marshall's law does is to in fact
take ESP as the communication category
that is it might happen for instance
that we're having ESP all the time
except that my pattern is very much like your pattern for fish
so whenever I'm thinking something like fish
and you're thinking something like elephant
we have a great tendency to do so
both of us
now sure you can set this up in a communication paradigm
once you discover that my fish was like your elephant
or vice versa
but it certainly wouldn't look at all like a mental radio
it might well be that we could learn to send messages
if we had for instance half a dozen people
who were dispersed around the world
of whom we'd ascertain that their patterns for particular symbols
were fairly similar
and we could train them to detect the change in their own pattern
when somebody else thought
one of the other people produced their pattern
and so you could get a kind of false code
in terms of recognize change
when I think fish
does anything happen to that
to that thing
and if it does
then I've got one point of the message
and as I say
this is consistent with what we know
it's different
certainly unconventional
and it clearly could be a quite good kind of science fiction story
now I'm not saying someone's got to write that story
all I'm saying is
that would in some ways be a rather better kind of ESP sort of story
than some of the ones we get
or it's a pity that someone is not doing that sort of thing I think
just an idea
I think we're going to have to sort of cut this short now anyway
there's no more questions I'd like to thank Dr Dell
for giving nice interesting sort of discussion
applause
popular if you like
it's not popular most of it
anyway the lyrics to all this
can be found in the latter half of your handbook
on five pages in the latter part of the handbook
it's mainly if you want to think along
most of it's lyrical content
on the science fiction
the first track is by Genesis called Watcher of the Skies
Michael Boodal
and it was apparently inspired by the latter part of the childhood's end
I'll just see Chloe
music
At the end of man's long human life
From life alone
to life as one
Sing that now your journey is done
So no ship is steady
No mercy has to see
When you survive on the ocean of the air
All ancient children you will see
I've been in my heart and now I'm so bored you will leave
Sing that now your thought will be gone
Where you gone you know you'll let me go
Watch out of the sky what you're about
Your face alone is fake you're all
I'm so bored you'll let me go
Sing that now your thought will be gone
There's a terrific normal situation about the aftermath of an atomic war
If you smile at me I will understand that there's nothing that we're gonna have to wear
I'll just stay the same way
I cannot see by your cold breath
You're from the other side
But just one thing I got to know can't simply
leave the war
So can I have some of your purple baby
Yes I've been eating him since seven weeks now
I haven't gotten sick in the winter
I'm looking for some life
We shift on the water very free and easy
You know the way it's supposed to be
Silver on the shoreline let us be
Talking about very free and easy
If all the clips that fly is what you got
All the candles that blow and respite
Still have all human feelings by
Free all living
You know me though
You know me
It's a fair wind, blowing wool out of the stock on my shoulder
Guess I'll sit across the road
The next track by Pink Floyd is no lyrics of real consequence
It's only the music and the song's vision content
Setting control for the out of the stock
The next track by Pink Floyd is no lyrics of real consequence
Adding control for the out of the stock
Setting control for the out of the stock
Setting control go to full-end
She's a rich, rich man.
She's a rich man.
So the next tracks by King Crimson, 21st century, Skidward Man.
It's exactly nine years old. Turn it here by the music.
That's what I call, no-signal scream.
That's what I call, 20% Skidward Man.
dreck, Bob War,
For the Turkish bureau pile,
Is a Jeffrey.
With no ball.
twenty-first century's Skidward Man.
Let's see it, come and read.
Oh, it's all in tune, believe.
Now he's got, he really needs,
When the birth and dreams get so damn long.
The next track is about as good an example of science fiction as you likely to find in music.
This is by Van de Graaf Generator. It's called, what is it called?
It's called The Pioneers Overseas, about what happens when a group of people travels faster than a speed of light.
About the very strange things that happen.
The Pioneers Overseas
That's the Earth in 1983, think of growth before the galaxy.
Red and I set up into the void of thousands of to be exploited.
Somebody help me, I call him. Somebody help me, I call him down.
In the sky, in the world,
In the sky, in the world.
We are the lost ones.
We are the pioneers.
We are the ones that are going to build a statue for
10 centuries ago.
Who's 16 for what?
A lovely whisper in our lock one did
We are sure they learn to get the best
And the act from the dead.
Don't know the world, they were about to go
Somebody help me out, it's me
Somebody help me, I'm gonna get this job
Touch with my life, I have no friends
Music
Well now, where is the client?
How do the hell am I?
Little thing in an aimless way
Oh, I know where we are
No they can't be loved
Touch with my life please
Music
There is no fear here
How could such a thing exist
In this place where living
And a wing of being
Have never been heard of
How do we get this job
Music
I am no white alone
Part of a vacant time zone
Floating in the void
Music
Only till the day
Be aware of existence
Music
Existing awareness
I am the lost one
I am the one you fear
I am the one you cross your face
Or stay where I was
Or didn't exist in the past
All night
Music
The next track is by Janis
This is called Get Him Out My Friday
And we face on it, believe it or not a real estate act
And it's an interesting extrapolation of what might happen in the future
With regard to this sort of thing
It's quite amusing
Music
Get Him Out My Friday
He don't get paid
No life's worth of his wealth
Get Him Out My Friday
And we face on it, believe it or not a real estate act
And it's an interesting extrapolation of what might happen in the future
Music